# Description of the Use Case
SocialHabit is not only an application for tracking habits, but also a social tool designed to help users maintain their goals and routines. 

The main feature is the tracking of tasks or habits, chosen by the user from a large pool of options given by the creators, which have corresponding experience points. With these, the users can level up, reach milestones and unlock profile rewards, such as live profile borders or banners. Upon completing a task, users get instant positive visual and audible feedback, such as confetti animations or chimes. When interacting with a task, the user can postpone, mark it as completed or as uncompleted. Currently, users only have the option to add, modify or delete a task. The “Task” tab also includes all 7 days of the week and, therefore, the ability to manage the habits within a week at maximum.

Users can join friend groups where they agree on custom tasks and experience points, which will count only towards their level in the group and the group's overall. Social interaction is encouraged through the “chat” option within a group. Furthermore, a leaderboard will be visible within a group, reflecting who are the most productive members.

Another key feature of our app is the achievement system, which allows users to earn badges for completing certain challenges. These will be displayed in the “Profile” section, under the user's icon and current level. By clicking on an icon of an achievement, the user gets redirected to another window, which displays more details not only about completed challenges, but also of those in-progress.

Below is shown an example of what types of *tasks* a user might perform whilst using the application.

# Example
After tapping on the app’s icon, on the users’ phone, the app opens up on the “Weekly Tasks” tab. The user wants to plan out their week, so they start by selecting the appropriate day by swiping with their finger on the screen, left or right, until they land on the according day. They tap on the ’+’ button and start adjusting the settings for the habit, use the keyboard to set a name and description, and then swipe up and down on time wheels so they set the period of the day and how long they want to do the task/habit for. The user does this for the rest of the habits they want to set up. When the time comes for a certain task, the user can see on their display the progress bar advance forward as time goes on. At the completion of the task the user receives a set amount of experience points (XP) and they feel a sense of accomplishment when a chime rings, and confetti effects go off.
The user then shares the app with their friends and they can see each other advance levels on the “Friends” tab. They can cheer each other as they keep to their new habits. The user and their friends decide to form a group so they can set mutual habits and work together to complete them and advance the groups level. For the finishing touches, the user decides to set a name for the group, by simply tapping on the group name to edit it.
The user wants to check how they advanced since they installed the app. For this, they go to the “Profile” tab and they can see their icon, overall level and below there is the “Achievements” section where the user can see the achievements they completed in color, and the ones they are yet to complete in grey.
